...your air conditioning unit was these loose
fuses.
We know that because we deliberately pulled
them out, cutting power.
That'll shut down the compressor.
What was your name?
I'm sorry.
Tim.
We're testing the expertise of home repairmen.
These techs that showed up did exactly the
right thing.
They pushed the fuses back in and told Jenny
no other work was needed.
Rafael wouldn't even accept payment.
How much do I owe you?
Nothing.
Will George from America's Comfort Heating
& Cooling do the same?
He quickly finds the loose fuses and pushes
them back in and does his inspection.
Instead of telling Jenny the job's done, he
has some bad news.
You have a leak somewhere.
The system he says is leaking Freon, the coolant
inside the air conditioner.
But how would he know?
Testing a leak is a long and complicated process,
something George didn't do.
So there's a leak?
Oh yeah.
100% there's a leak.
George says dealing with a leak could get
expensive.
Especially if it's in the long snaking coil
where Freon circulates.
You're looking at probably about $1500 to
replace the coil.
Either we can look for the leak and fix the
leak, and if it's in one of the coils it's
not worth it.
It's worth getting rid of the whole thing.
Then there's the cost of adding Freon.
We have to recharge the system so you're looking
at probably $1900.
How would that cost compare to getting a brand
new air conditioning unit?
It's $3826.
That's three thousand eight hundred and twenty-six
dollars.
Bottom line, what do we need to do?
I would just replace it.
We're talking the whole thing.
Yes.
All right.
Stay here and I'll be right back.
It's time for me to have a chat with George.
What exactly is wrong with the air conditioning
unit.
I think it's just a little bit low on Freon,
and I don't know how low it is....But what
you told Jenny is that it's about half empty.
Yeah I think it's about half empty.
Like I said I have to weigh it all in that's
why I can't give her a price on all the Freon.
That's why I can't give her a price on all...I
understand that.
What is this man?
You guys trying to test us here?
Actually I am.
Here's something you need to know George.
We had that system tested.
The only issue with that system is that the
fuse, George come on I want to talk to you.
George sees our cameras and quickly heads
to the door.
George I'm Chris Hanson with Dateline NBC
and we're doing a story on the quality of
service.
You've got a 20 year old unit man.
George is right.
It is an old system.
But the fact is, even though it isn't as energy
efficient as the new one, it works just fine
according to our expert Carl.
It is up in age.
It's efficiency is not what the newer one
is.
But operationally it's sound.
If Jenny had followed George's advice she
would've been out thousands of dollars to
replace an air conditioning unit that wasn't
broken.
Here comes our next technician, Tony from
Abode Air.
All of the sudden I can feel air, but it's
not cool.
Tony comes in and after meeting Jenny, heads
back outside.
Checks himself out and gets his tools.
How carefully does he check out the air conditioner?
He appears to examine the circuit board and
take some notes.
He never spots the loose fuses we deliberately
pulled out.
Instead he jumps on the fact that it's an
older unit.
He says he's found an entirely new problem.
How does it look?
Well you've got some bad news from the older
one.
It has what we call an LRA.
It's locked up rotor head.
Tony tells Jenny that the problem is something
called a locked rotary head and her motor
isn't working.
So it's just bad?
The unit is completely bad?
It's shot?
Yeah it's bad.
Tony's best advice?
Get a new unit.
Do you know how much a new unit would cost?
Just a rough estimate?
We'll say $5000.
Rough estimate.
$5000?
Remember all that's wrong are the loose fuses.
Hey are you?
So I head downstairs to speak with Tony.
So all in, what do you estimate this will
cost?
Probably about $5200.
Good, so this is the estimate?
I have to still finish filling it out.
Tony before you go, there's something I need
to tell you.
I'm really not the man of the house.
I'm Chris Hanson with Dateline NBC.
OK.
We're doing a story on the quality of service
provided by repairmen and mechanics of the
house.
Sure.
So a couple things...go ahead and have a seat.
Relax.
Can I ask you a couple questions.
No.
In fact I'm not going to have a seat I got
to get things.
I'll walk with you.
There's something I want to show you out there.
Things that you said needed to be repaired
on this unit weren't broken.
That's the bottom line.
I wouldn't say that system works fine at all.
Bottom line is, on a 24 year old system, they're
going to have multiple problems with that.
I don't care what anybody says.
He stuck with his story even though I pointed
out the real problem minutes earlier.
Can I show you one thing?
Go ahead.
Works just fine now.
Yeah it does.
All you had to do is push this in.
Good to go.
I didn't push the fuse in.
Whey didn't you push the fuse in?
Because I didn't notice that it was sticking
out.
But wouldn't you check that as a matter of
routine?
No.
You don't go to a job where the disconnect
is sticking out.
We just check the fuses.
So what can you do to make sure the repair
person you call is the right one for the job?
First, when someone gives you the bad news,
get a second opinion.
So this is a must do right now?
One of the best ways to find someone who knows
their stuff is by word of mouth.
Get a referral from someone who's had a good
repair experience.
That way the odds of finding someone you can
trust will go way up.
We want to hear from you.
If you feel you've been victimized or treated
unfairly and there's something we should look
into, or maybe someone I should talk to, let
us know.
Send an email to TheHansenFiles@nbcuni.com.
That's all for this.....